Add Globalization ICU docs (#18565)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/globalization-localization/globalization-icu.md

> ---

Author: Not sure if I needed to include this section.

title: "Globalization and ICU"
ms.date: "05/21/2020"
ms.technology: dotnet-standard
dev_langs:
  - "csharp"
  - "vb"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "globalization [.NET Framework], about globalization"
  - "global applications, globalization"
  - "international applications [.NET Framework], globalization"
  - "world-ready applications, globalization"
  - "application development [.NET Framework], globalization"
  - "culture, globalization"
  - "icu, icu on windows, ms-icu"
ms.assetid: 4e919934-6b19-42f2-b770-275a4fae87c9
---

# .NET Globalization and ICU

> In the past, the .NET globalization APIs have used different underlying libraries on different platforms.  On Unix, it used [International Components for Unicode (ICU)](http://site.icu-project.org/home), and on Windows, it used [National Language Support (NLS)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/intl/national-language-support). This resulted in some behavioral differences in a handful of globalization APIs when running applications on different platforms, in particular affecting:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the past, the .NET globalization APIs have used different underlying libraries on different platforms.  On Unix, it used [International Components for Unicode (ICU)](http://site.icu-project.org/home), and on Windows, it used [National Language Support (NLS)](/windows/win32/intl/national-language-support). This resulted in some behavioral differences in a handful of globalization APIs when running applications on different platforms, in particular affecting:
```

`<suffix>`: Optional suffix of less than 36 characters in length, following the public ICU packaging conventions. When building a custom ICU, you can customize it to produce the lib names and exported symbol names to contain a suffix, e.g. `libicuucmyapp` where `myapp` is the suffix.

`<version>`: A valid ICU version, e.g. 67.1. This version will be used to load the binaries and to get the exported symbols.

To load ICU when the app-local switch is set, .NET uses the [NativeLibrary.TryLoad](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.runtime.interopservices.nativelibrary.tryload) method which probes multiple paths, first trying to find the library in the `NATIVE_DLL_SEARCH_DIRECTORIES` property which is created by the dotnet host based on the `deps.json` file for the app. More details [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/dependency-loading/default-probing)

For self-contained apps, no special action is required by the user, other than making sure ICU is in the APP directory (for self-contained apps, the working directory defaults to `NATIVE_DLL_SEARCH_DIRECTORIES`).

> If you're consuming ICU via a NuGet package, this will work in framework-dependent applications as NuGet will resolve the native assets and include them in the `deps.json` file and in the output directory for the application under the `runtimes` dir, and .NET will load it from there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're consuming ICU via a NuGet package, this works in framework-dependent applications. NuGet resolves the native assets and includes them in the `deps.json` file and in the output directory for the application under the `runtimes` dir. .NET loads it from there.
```

Shortened sentences for easier translation.

> For framework-dependent apps (not self contained) where ICU is consumed from a local build, additional steps must be taken. The .NET SDK doesn't yet have a feature for "loose" native binaries to be incorporated into `deps.json` (https://github.com/dotnet/sdk/issues/11373). Instead, a developer can enable this by adding additional information into the application's project file, e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For framework-dependent apps (not self contained) where ICU is consumed from a local build, additional steps must be taken. The .NET SDK doesn't yet have a feature for "loose" native binaries to be incorporated into `deps.json` (see (this SDK issue)[https://github.com/dotnet/sdk/issues/11373]). Instead, you can enable this by adding additional information into the application's project file. For example:
```

```xml
<ItemGroup>
  <IcuAssemblies Include="icu\*.so*" />
  <RuntimeTargetsCopyLocalItems Include="@(IcuAssemblies)" AssetType="native" CopyLocal="true" DestinationSubDirectory="runtimes/linux-x64/native/" DestinationSubPath="%(FileName)%(Extension)" RuntimeIdentifier="linux-x64" NuGetPackageId="System.Private.Runtime.UnicodeData" />
</ItemGroup>
```

> Note that this will have to be done for all the ICU binaries for the supported runtimes. Also, the `NuGetPackageId` metadata in the `RuntimeTargetsCopyLocalItems` item group needs to match a NuGet package that the project actually references.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This must be done for all the ICU binaries for the supported runtimes. Also, the `NuGetPackageId` metadata in the `RuntimeTargetsCopyLocalItems` item group needs to match a NuGet package that the project actually references.
```

### macOS behavior

> `macOS` has a different behavior for resolving dependent dynamic libraries from the load commands specified in the `match-o` file than the Linux loader. In the Linux loader, .NET can try `libicudata` first, then `libicuuc`, and last `libicui18n` in that order to satisfy ICU dependency graph. However, on `macOS` this doesn't work. When building ICU on `macOS`, you by default get a dynamic library with these load commands in libicuuc, e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`macOS` has a different behavior for resolving dependent dynamic libraries from the load commands specified in the `match-o` file than the Linux loader. In the Linux loader, .NET can try `libicudata`, `libicuuc`, and `libicui18n` (in that order) to satisfy ICU dependency graph. However, on macOS this doesn't work. When building ICU on macOS, you, by default, get a dynamic library with these load commands in `libicuuc`. For example.:
```

```sh
~/ % otool -L /Users/santifdezm/repos/icu-build/icu/install/lib/libicuuc.67.1.dylib
/Users/santifdezm/repos/icu-build/icu/install/lib/libicuuc.67.1.dylib:
 libicuuc.67.dylib (compatibility version 67.0.0, current version 67.1.0)
 libicudata.67.dylib (compatibility version 67.0.0, current version 67.1.0)
 /usr/lib/libSystem.B.dylib (compatibility version 1.0.0, current version 1281.100.1)
 /usr/lib/libc++.1.dylib (compatibility version 1.0.0, current version 902.1.0)
```

> These commands are just referencing the name of the dependent libraries for the other components of ICU, so the loader will do the search following the `dlopen` conventions, which involve having these libraries in the system directories or setting the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` env vars, or having ICU at the app level directory. So if you can't set `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` or make sure that ICU binaries are at the app level directory, you will need to do some extra work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These commands are just referencing the name of the dependent libraries for the other components of ICU. The loader performs the search following the `dlopen` conventions, which involves having these libraries in the system directories or setting the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` env vars, or having ICU at the app-level directory. If you can't set `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` or ensure that ICU binaries are at the app-level directory, you will need to do some extra work.
```

> There are some directives for the loader, like `@loader_path` which tells the loader to search for that dependency in the same directory as the binary with that load command. So there's 2 ways to achieve this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are some directives for the loader, like `@loader_path`, which tell the loader to search for that dependency in the same directory as the binary with that load command. There are two ways to achieve this:
```

> ##### install_name_tool -change

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `install_name_tool -change`
```

> Running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

  Run the following commands:
```

Please also indent the code snippet by two spaces on each line.

```
install_name_tool -change "libicudata.67.dylib" "@loader_path/libicudata.67.dylib" /path/to/libicuuc.67.1.dylib
install_name_tool -change "libicudata.67.dylib" "@loader_path/libicudata.67.dylib" /path/to/libicui18n.67.1.dylib
install_name_tool -change "libicuuc.67.dylib" "@loader_path/libicuuc.67.dylib" /path/to/libicui18n.67.1.dylib
```

> ##### patching ICU to produce the install names with @loader_path

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Patch ICU to produce the install names with `@loader_path`
```

> Before running autoconf (`./runConfigureICU`), you need to change [these lines](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/ef91cc3673d69a5e00407cda94f39fcda3131451/icu4c/source/config/mh-darwin#L32-L37) to: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

  Before running autoconf (`./runConfigureICU`), change [these lines](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/ef91cc3673d69a5e00407cda94f39fcda3131451/icu4c/source/config/mh-darwin#L32-L37) to: 
```

> ```

Reviewer: Indent each line 2 spaces to align under the bullet.

---
title: "Globalization and ICU"
ms.date: "05/21/2020"
ms.technology: dotnet-standard
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "globalization [.NET Framework], about globalization"
  - "global applications, globalization"
  - "international applications [.NET Framework], globalization"
  - "world-ready applications, globalization"
  - "application development [.NET Framework], globalization"
  - "culture, globalization"
  - "icu, icu on windows, ms-icu"
---

# .NET globalization and ICU

> In the past, the .NET globalization APIs have used different underlying libraries on different platforms. On Unix, the APIs used [International Components for Unicode (ICU)](http://site.icu-project.org/home), and on Windows, they used [National Language Support (NLS)](/windows/win32/intl/national-language-support). This resulted in some behavioral differences in a handful of globalization APIs when running applications on different platforms. Behavior differences were evident in these areas:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the past, the .NET globalization APIs used different underlying libraries on different platforms. On Unix, the APIs used [International Components for Unicode (ICU)](http://site.icu-project.org/home), and on Windows, they used [National Language Support (NLS)](/windows/win32/intl/national-language-support). This resulted in some behavioral differences in a handful of globalization APIs when running applications on different platforms. Behavior differences were evident in these areas:
```

- Cultures and culture data
- String casing
- String sorting and searching
- Sort keys
- String normalization
- Internationalized Domain Names (IDN) support
- Time zone display name on Linux

Starting with .NET 5.0, developers have more control over which underlying library is used, enabling applications to avoid differences across platforms.

## ICU on Windows

> Windows 10 May 2019 Update and later versions include [icu.dll](/windows/win32/intl/international-components-for-unicode--icu-) as part of the OS, and .NET 5.0 and later versions uses ICU by default. When running on Windows, .NET 5.0 and later versions tries to load `icu.dll` and if it's available, uses it for the globalization implementation.  If that library can't be found or loaded, such as when running on older versions of Windows, .NET 5 and later versions falls back to the NLS-based implementation.

Reviewer 2: Tries->try
Uses->use
Falls->fall

> Windows 10 May 2019 Update and later versions include [icu.dll](/windows/win32/intl/international-components-for-unicode--icu-) as part of the OS, and .NET 5.0 and later versions uses ICU by default. When running on Windows, .NET 5.0 and later versions tries to load `icu.dll` and if it's available, uses it for the globalization implementation.  If that library can't be found or loaded, such as when running on older versions of Windows, .NET 5 and later versions falls back to the NLS-based implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Windows 10 May 2019 Update and later versions include [icu.dll](/windows/win32/intl/international-components-for-unicode--icu-) as part of the OS, and .NET 5.0 and later versions uses ICU by default. When running on Windows, .NET 5.0 and later versions tries to load `icu.dll` and if it's available, uses it for the globalization implementation.  If that library can't be found or loaded, such as when running on older versions of Windows, .NET 5.0 and later versions falls back to the NLS-based implementation.
```

> [!NOTE]
> Even when using ICU, the `CurrentCulture`, `CurrentUICulture`, and `CurrentRegion` members still use Windows operating system APIs to honor user settings.

### Using NLS instead of ICU

Using ICU instead of NLS may result in behavioral differences with some globalization-related operations. To revert back to using NLS, a developer can opt out of the ICU implementation. Applications can enable NLS mode in any of the following ways:

- In the project file:

```xml
<ItemGroup>
  <RuntimeHostConfigurationOption Include="System.Globalization.UseNls" Value="true" />
</ItemGroup>
```

- In the `runtimeconfig.json` file:

```json
{
  "runtimeOptions": {
     "configProperties": {
       "System.Globalization.UseNls": true
      }
  }
}
```

> - By setting the environment variable `DOTNET_SYSTEM_GLOBALIZATION_USENLS` to the value `true` or `1` (without quotes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- By setting the environment variable `DOTNET_SYSTEM_GLOBALIZATION_USENLS` to the value `true` or `1`.
```

Reviewer: The backticks don't appear on the rendered page, so we don't need to say "without the quotes".

> [!NOTE]
> A value set in the project or in the `runtimeconfig.json` file takes precedence over the environment variable.

> > For more information, see [Run-time config settings](../../core/run-time-config/globalization.md#nls).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

For more information, see [Run-time config settings](../../core/run-time-config/globalization.md#nls).
```

## App-local ICU

> Each release of ICU may bring with it bug fixes as well as updated Common Locale Data Repository (CLDR) data that describes the world's languages. Moving between versions of ICU can subtly impact app behavior when it comes to globalization-related operations.  To help application developers ensure consistency across all deployments, .NET 5.0 and later versions enables apps on both Windows and Unix to carry and use their own copy of ICU.

Reviewer 2: Enables->enable

Applications can opt in to an app-local ICU implementation mode in any of the following ways:

- In  the project file:

```xml
<ItemGroup>
  <RuntimeHostConfigurationOption Include="System.Globalization.AppLocalIcu" Value="<suffix>:<version> or <version>" />
</ItemGroup>
```

- In the `runtimeconfig.json` file:

```json
{
  "runtimeOptions": {
     "configProperties": {
       "System.Globalization.AppLocalIcu": "<suffix>:<version> or <version>"
      }
  }
}
```

> - By setting the environment variable `DOTNET_SYSTEM_GLOBALIZATION_APPLOCALICU` to the value `<suffix>:<version>` or `<version>` (without quotes). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- By setting the environment variable `DOTNET_SYSTEM_GLOBALIZATION_APPLOCALICU` to the value `<suffix>:<version>` or `<version>`. 
```

`<suffix>`: Optional suffix of less than 36 characters in length, following the public ICU packaging conventions. When building a custom ICU, you can customize it to produce the lib names and exported symbol names to contain a suffix, for example, `libicuucmyapp`, where `myapp` is the suffix.

`<version>`: A valid ICU version, for example, 67.1. This version is used to load the binaries and to get the exported symbols.

To load ICU when the app-local switch is set, .NET uses the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.NativeLibrary.TryLoad%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> method, which probes multiple paths. The method first tries to find the library in the `NATIVE_DLL_SEARCH_DIRECTORIES` property, which is created by the dotnet host based on the `deps.json` file for the app. For more information, see [Default probing](../../core/dependency-loading/default-probing.md).

> For self-contained apps, no special action is required by the user, other than making sure ICU is in the APP directory (for self-contained apps, the working directory defaults to `NATIVE_DLL_SEARCH_DIRECTORIES`).

Reviewer 2: APP->app?

> If you're consuming ICU via a NuGet package, this works in framework-dependent applications. NuGet resolves the native assets and includes them in the `deps.json` file and in the output directory for the application under the `runtimes` dir. .NET loads it from there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're consuming ICU via a NuGet package, this works in framework-dependent applications. NuGet resolves the native assets and includes them in the `deps.json` file and in the output directory for the application under the `runtimes` directory. .NET loads it from there.
```

> For framework-dependent apps (not self contained) where ICU is consumed from a local build, additional steps must be taken. The .NET SDK doesn't yet have a feature for "loose" native binaries to be incorporated into `deps.json` (see (this SDK issue)[https://github.com/dotnet/sdk/issues/11373]). Instead, you can enable this by adding additional information into the application's project file. For example:

Reviewer 2: " Must be taken " is passive voice.   "You must take..."

> For framework-dependent apps (not self contained) where ICU is consumed from a local build, additional steps must be taken. The .NET SDK doesn't yet have a feature for "loose" native binaries to be incorporated into `deps.json` (see (this SDK issue)[https://github.com/dotnet/sdk/issues/11373]). Instead, you can enable this by adding additional information into the application's project file. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For framework-dependent apps (not self contained) where ICU is consumed from a local build, you must take additional steps. The .NET SDK doesn't yet have a feature for "loose" native binaries to be incorporated into `deps.json` (see [this SDK issue](https://github.com/dotnet/sdk/issues/11373)). Instead, you can enable this by adding additional information into the application's project file. For example:
```

```xml
<ItemGroup>
  <IcuAssemblies Include="icu\*.so*" />
  <RuntimeTargetsCopyLocalItems Include="@(IcuAssemblies)" AssetType="native" CopyLocal="true" DestinationSubDirectory="runtimes/linux-x64/native/" DestinationSubPath="%(FileName)%(Extension)" RuntimeIdentifier="linux-x64" NuGetPackageId="System.Private.Runtime.UnicodeData" />
</ItemGroup>
```

This must be done for all the ICU binaries for the supported runtimes. Also, the `NuGetPackageId` metadata in the `RuntimeTargetsCopyLocalItems` item group needs to match a NuGet package that the project actually references.

### macOS behavior

> `macOS` has a different behavior for resolving dependent dynamic libraries from the load commands specified in the `match-o` file than the Linux loader. In the Linux loader, .NET can try `libicudata`, `libicuuc`, and `libicui18n` (in that order) to satisfy ICU dependency graph. However, on macOS this doesn't work. When building ICU on macOS, you, by default, get a dynamic library with these load commands in `libicuuc`. For example.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`macOS` has a different behavior for resolving dependent dynamic libraries from the load commands specified in the `match-o` file than the Linux loader. In the Linux loader, .NET can try `libicudata`, `libicuuc`, and `libicui18n` (in that order) to satisfy ICU dependency graph. However, on macOS, this doesn't work. When building ICU on macOS, you, by default, get a dynamic library with these load commands in `libicuuc`. For example.:
```

```sh
~/ % otool -L /Users/santifdezm/repos/icu-build/icu/install/lib/libicuuc.67.1.dylib
/Users/santifdezm/repos/icu-build/icu/install/lib/libicuuc.67.1.dylib:
 libicuuc.67.dylib (compatibility version 67.0.0, current version 67.1.0)
 libicudata.67.dylib (compatibility version 67.0.0, current version 67.1.0)
 /usr/lib/libSystem.B.dylib (compatibility version 1.0.0, current version 1281.100.1)
 /usr/lib/libc++.1.dylib (compatibility version 1.0.0, current version 902.1.0)
```

> These commands are just referencing the name of the dependent libraries for the other components of ICU. The loader performs the search following the `dlopen` conventions, which involves having these libraries in the system directories or setting the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` env vars, or having ICU at the app-level directory. If you can't set `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` or ensure that ICU binaries are at the app-level directory, you will need to do some extra work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These commands just reference the name of the dependent libraries for the other components of ICU. The loader performs the search following the `dlopen` conventions, which involves having these libraries in the system directories or setting the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` env vars, or having ICU at the app-level directory. If you can't set `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` or ensure that ICU binaries are at the app-level directory, you will need to do some extra work.
```
